hey there everyone
hi uh my name is atesh i hope many of
you might be knowing it in order to
understand what i'm trying to speak and
what i'm trying to convey in this talk
it's very important to know a bit about
me what i do what i don't do and all
that stuff so
my passion i am a teacher
that is the core soul and heart of what
i do i love teaching and that's what i
do day in and day out but apart from
this i do a few more stuff so far i have
recorded over 100 courses each of the
course contains around 100 videos give
or take
apart from that i also run a youtube
channel which is constantly growing
around 700 000 subscribers
i'm insanely active on instagram i love
to
just be on instagram day in and day out
apart from that i run uh four startups
in one of them i am cto currently and
apart from this i am founder of other
three
and i am also a traveler so far 31
countries
after that 2022 happened
and
stuff you know
after that not only that i also dedicate
around four hours in a week to my health
running gymming whatever that is
so constantly i've been thrown this
question around that how it is
how you are managing all of this what's
the secret around it because i'm pretty
sure all of you have read those all help
self-help books wake up at five o'clock
leave your mobile phones and uninstall
all the app turn off all the
notification how is it that working for
you
i'm pretty sure not great
you are still struggling that how we can
manage the time
see the point is
you need to understand that modern
problems requires modern solution and
that is why the stock is here that how
modern time management works
it is not going to solve everything by
waking up at five o'clock we have seen
that it doesn't work you have try it one
week two week that's it it dies out you
have tried
trying to detox yourself from the mobile
phone it doesn't work it's a part of
your life
it's almost like saying that hey
you need to detox yourself from clothes
it doesn't work it used to work in early
sage age now it doesn't work
so here are my few secrets that i'm
going to reveal in front of you that how
do i manage all of this and how you can
also take some of the tips from it maybe
some of these things are going to work
for you
so starting with the first
of course i'm a programmer so i start
with zero so step zero is
make sure you understand that you cannot
manage time this is the ultimate truth
no matter what you do you cannot manage
time
but there is a little bit more to it
once you make yourself happy okay time i
cannot manage because you plan things
out but it doesn't work out maybe you
have a plan today that i'll go for a run
or workout but time is not going to
allow you it always runs against you
life is predictably unpredictable make
sure you always understand that
so moving on if time management the
first step is you cannot manage time so
how does it work
it works with a simple step manage
people i cannot manage time so i'm going
to manage people how do i manage people
there are two types of people the first
one is who need your time and the second
one who wants your type
always the bubble of people who want
your time is way bigger than the people
who need your time so the first thing
you have to manage is people who need
your time your parents your loved ones
your girlfriends your boyfriend
they need your time they don't want your
time they need your time once you sort
them out properly then try to arrange
that who are these people who want my
time and try to give them time piece by
piece
time is the most precious thing that you
can have so make sure you allocate that
very very
clearly and again you have to learn how
to manage people
in order to give them some time slot so
people are very tricky it's not easy to
manage people and that's why i always
give that understand people if you're
not giving time to your girlfriend or
boyfriend or your mom or dad one day
they're gonna become into the bursting
category they're going to demand your
entire day that is very costly so
instead of giving them an entire day try
to dedicate and give them one or two
hour daily so that they don't come into
the category of want my time they are
into the category of need your time and
then obviously your boss needs your time
your employees need your time and all of
that so make sure you figure out who
needs my time on priority today
and allocate some time to them that's
how the first step works i take always
inspiration from the kids
kids are the best example of how to
manage their time the first their mind
is always focused about how can i take
more time to play enjoy
and when the dad comes at home
they sit down with their books open
so learn they have already mastered how
to manage people
they know how to manage their dad dad
wants to see me studying i study or not
that's a different take but they have
understood they have figured it out that
my dad wants me to study so when the dad
comes from office they are always book
open
that is one thing you can learn from
these kids step number two social media
how many of you have tried to detox
yourself from the social media i have
tried
a lot of have tried does it work
not at all when you come back onto
social media it actually is worst
so what i've done here is my secret trip
for that
this is all what we have done
late night endless scroll of
these social media instagram reels thank
god tik tok is not here but
in many places it is there so the tip is
it is not avoidable you cannot avoid
social media stop struggling from it but
if you cannot avoid it
master it
rule it follow those people who make you
inspired to do more follow people who do
work out daily follow those people who
put up some motivation follow those
programmers who write great code we
cannot avoid it so follow those people
who make this social media enjoyable
make it more learning
don't follow 1000 or 50 000 people as
randomly follow wisely people who
inspire you to do something
and as i say if you cannot move the
mountain climb the mountain so this is
how social media you don't need to avoid
it you need to rule it
step number three
underestimate your time a lot of people
overestimate their time i can do gym i
can do running i can do assignment i can
watch this video series i can watch this
netflix you are doing it wrong you are
you are asking yourself that i have too
much of time you don't have
your time
allows you to do only two thing in a day
just two things so this is your entirely
your life entire red box
consider this as your life
or a day in a life you can only fit in
two things and i call them as white
circle and a black circle white circle
is the thing that i want to do and black
circle is something which people want me
to do
i want to work out i want to make videos
this is my priority but people i have a
job i run i am a functional cto so i
need to manage a lot of people so what
people want people want a lot of meeting
from me people want me to take a lot of
decision on the daily basis but i cannot
do more than this so i dedicate my time
today is a gym day and meeting day
that's it today is a video day and a
meeting day that's it today we have some
release that's the company's work and
after that what i'll do probably work
out that's it two things in a day rest
all the things you see there is a lot of
empty space in your life still after
putting these circles
those all things unwanted things
birthday parties your friends marriage
and all of this this goes in between
that if i can accomplish two tasks in a
day that's it i consider my day as very
very fruitful job done
step number four reward yourself now
this is where a lot of people lag that
what should be considered as reward and
what should not be considered as reward
let me put up in this question
a lot of people think that i'll turn off
my phone and will play playstation
entire day
is it a reward
yeah for some people yes but is it
feasible
whole day in a park
sounds good but you'll be bored in half
an hour at a max one hour
vacation without mail or phone i'll go
on a vacation on a beach i'll not turn
on my phone
it sounds great in theory but in reality
in practical it doesn't work at all you
need to plan your reward in which your
phone your work is actually a part of it
if you train your brain like that okay
i'm going for a vacation but maybe one
hour i need to dedicate to my emails
maybe one hour i'll need to check up on
instagram or something then your reward
actually becomes a reward so whatever
you are rewarding yourself after intense
work you are buying a macbook after some
lengthy work of six months that is fine
and it should be considered as fine so
make sure you choose your reward
greatly and again reward should be there
without reward no human works so make
sure you put yourself some rewards are
there that if i'm able to work out for
six entire months no break at all
i'll go for a feast or i'll buy myself
the most expensive headphone that i have
but i'm gonna buy this new pair of jeans
so make sure you put reward yourself
that reward is something and the more
honest you are with yourself it works
now all of these things which you see up
here without phone without phone it
doesn't work
you see them in a lot of books because
these books were written when mobile
phone was not in the current state
iphone 13 was not there
this is so good of a phone to resist
instagram was not there when these books
were written so make sure you understand
modern problem requires modern solution
now phone is a part of your life
so rule it now since you have stayed so
long and shows a little bit interest
here's this bonus tip smile this is a
bonus tip
life is predictably unpredictable
miss happens
stuff goes wrong it will happen every
single day
you want to go to gym you are not gonna
be going to gym you want to do a lot of
stuff things are going to go bad so
here's my small tip don't control your
life
don't plan for a month don't plan for a
year
don't take those new year resolution it
doesn't work
i've tried them myself for some years it
works for some years it doesn't work so
what instead i try is it's okay to lose
control
if i'm not able to work out today it's
okay
i was not able to
if i'm not able to code today or make a
video today it's okay things happen
restart doesn't mean tomorrow also needs
to go bad if today is messed up tomorrow
i can fix it so i always go ahead and
believe and a strong believer of restart
i'm a computer guy i know a lot of
problem can be solved by just turning
off the things and turning on the things
restart works
this is a proven theory in computers
restart always works
so
most importantly make sure you plan your
day and it's okay to mess up try
tomorrow again two things that's it in
the life just do and plan and prepare
for 10 things and here is my last and
the most important thing i always end up
my ted talks with some of the quotation
or some of the theories that i have
here's the one
a lot of people misunderstand what is
time management they want to do a
thousand different things you don't do
thousand things you take one step at a
time you do one thing today right that's
it
time management is not about doing 100
things it's about just doing a very few
things but consistently you want to work
out consistently work out you want to
write code consistently write code just
for two hours a day you want to make
youtube videos just make one video a day
that's it
that's all it takes
so make sure to sum this all up
it is not possible
to master time management you can manage
only people
it is not possible to master your entire
year but it is possible or at least we
can try to master today's day and only
today's day so make sure you don't run
after reading thousand books of time
management instead of just try to sort
out just today that's it live in the
moment try that out so that is all from
my side thank you so much
you